README.md, before:

# Sacred Brain – Hippocampus Service (v0)

A lightweight FastAPI microservice that wraps a Mem0 memory backend and exposes
simple HTTP endpoints for storing, querying, and summarising memories.

## Features

- Store “experiences” (text + metadata) per user.
- Query user memories using semantic/full-text lookups via Mem0.
- Delete memories when they are no longer relevant.
- Summarise multiple memories into a compact form.
- Designed for self-hosted Mem0 deployments on a private LAN/Tailscale network.
- Automatically falls back to the local in-memory store (or optional SQLite mode) when Mem0 is unreachable.
- Minimal configuration via TOML + environment variables.
- Ready-to-run with `uvicorn`, includes tests and ops scaffolding.

## Getting Started

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
export HIPPOCAMPUS_CONFIG=config/hippocampus.toml
uvicorn brain.hippocampus.app:app --reload
```

If Mem0 is offline (or not yet installed), the service automatically falls back
to an in-memory store, ensuring Hippocampus keeps accepting requests. You can
also opt into the bundled SQLite backend for persistence if desired.

## Configuration

Configuration is loaded from `config/hippocampus.toml` and can be overridden
with environment variables prefixed by `HIPPOCAMPUS_` (for example,
`HIPPOCAMPUS_MEM0_BACKEND_URL`). See `brain/hippocampus/config.py` for the full
set of options. The default expectation is that you self-host Mem0 on the same
LAN/VPN:

```toml
[auth]
enabled = false
header_name = "X-API-Key"
api_keys = []

[mem0]
enabled = true
backend = "remote"          # or "memory"/"sqlite"
backend_url = "http://localhost:8888"
api_key = ""                # optional, for your self-hosted deployment
```

If `enabled = false` (or the remote host fails), the adapter falls back to the
in-memory store so Hippocampus remains responsive. The SQLite backend is still
available for teams that want persistence without Mem0.

If you have a local LLM (e.g., Ollama), enable the `[mem0].api_key` or
the `HIPPOCAMPUS_MEM0_API_KEY` environment variable so the adapter can initialise
the official `MemoryClient` SDK. Without a key the service automatically falls
back to SQLite or in-memory storage.

## Running Tests

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pytest
```

## Ops

- `ops/scripts/dev_run.sh` starts the app with sensible defaults.
- `ops/systemd/hippocampus.service` can be dropped into `/etc/systemd/system`
  as a starting point for Raspberry Pi deployments.
- `ops/mem0/prepare_mem0_source.sh` clones/updates the official Mem0 repo into
  `ext/mem0`. Use the upstream `ext/mem0/server/docker-compose.yaml` to launch
  Mem0 + Postgres + Neo4j (see `docs/MEM0_SELF_HOSTING.md` for commands).

## Mem0 Self-Hosting

To wire Hippocampus to a local Mem0 deployment:

1. `cd ops/mem0 && ./prepare_mem0_source.sh`
2. `cd ext/mem0/server && cp .env.example .env` (set `OPENAI_API_KEY` and optional `MEM0_API_KEY`)
3. `OPENAI_API_KEY=... docker compose up -d` (brings up Mem0 + Postgres + Neo4j on port 8888)
4. Update `config/hippocampus.toml` (or env vars) so `[mem0]` has `enabled = true`
   and `backend_url = "http://127.0.0.1:8888"`.
5. Start Hippocampus via `uvicorn` or the systemd unit.
6. To verify fallback behaviour, stop Mem0 (`docker compose stop`), issue
   API calls (service stays up using in-memory storage), then `docker compose start`
   and confirm the warnings disappear. Mem0’s REST API doesn’t expose a `/health`
   route; use `/docs` or a `/memories` request to confirm it’s responding.

See `docs/MEM0_SELF_HOSTING.md` for the step-by-step walkthrough, health checks,
and troubleshooting tips.

## Summarizer (optional)

Add this block to `config/hippocampus.toml` (or set the corresponding `HIPPOCAMPUS_SUMMARIZER_*` env vars) to enable Litellm/Ollama summaries:

```toml
[summarizer]
enabled = false
provider = "litellm"
model = "ollama:llama3"
base_url = "http://localhost:11434"
api_key = ""
max_tokens = 512
```

When disabled, `/summaries` falls back to the built-in truncation helper.

## Agno agent (optional)

Set `[agno].enabled = true` to wrap Hippocampus in an Agno agent for richer
orchestration (tool calls for memory read/write + summarisation). `/matrix/respond`
will route through the Agno agent when available; otherwise it uses the direct
summariser fallback. You’ll need the model-specific dependencies (e.g., `openai`
or `ollama`) installed for the chosen `[agno].model` provider.

## Org-roam / Denote bridge

Export all Mem0 memories into Denote-compatible Org files (usable by
org-roam), and import hand-written notes back into Mem0:

```bash
python scripts/mem0_org_sync.py export --dir data/memories-denote --user alice
python scripts/mem0_org_sync.py import --dir data/memories-denote --user alice
```

Files are idempotent and get `:MEM0_ID:`/`:ID:` properties so repeated syncs do
not duplicate. See `docs/MEM0_ORG_ROAM.md` for the format and options.

## LiteLLM gateway (canonical)
- Route all model traffic through LiteLLM and configure OpenWebUI (if used) to
  point at LiteLLM instead of providers directly. See `docs/LITELLM_GATEWAY.md`.
- Hippocampus stays independent; clients call `/memories` directly.

## Logging to Hippocampus
- Client-agnostic logging examples (curl/Python) are in `docs/LOGGING_TO_HIPPOCAMPUS.md`.
- OpenWebUI-specific auto-logging is deprecated (legacy webhook remains for compatibility).

## Next Steps

- Add authentication and per-caller access control.
- Replace the naive summary helper with an LLM-backed summariser.
- Expand metrics/observability once the core API is validated.


## Matrix Bot

See `bots/matrix/MENTION_BOT.md` for setup.
## Codex Session Memory

Use `scripts/codex_log.py` to append major decisions so future Codex sessions can restore context. Example:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/codex_log.py add "Matrix mention bot deployed via systemd" ops/systemd/matrix-bot.service
python scripts/codex_log.py recent --limit 5
```

When restarting Codex, run `python scripts/codex_log.py recent --limit 5` and paste the output into the prompt. The same entries are also pushed to Mem0 (if `MEM0_API_KEY` is set) for semantic retrieval.

To avoid dragging long transcripts back in, summarise the latest Codex log into `codex/session_memory.md` with:

```bash
python scripts/codex_summarize_session.py --dry-run   # inspect the summary it will write
python scripts/codex_summarize_session.py             # append summary + inferred files
```

This helper scans the most recent `.codex/session-*.log`, pulls out the key bullets, and appends a compact entry so new Codex sessions can start fresh without `codexctl resume`.
`codexctl` now runs this automatically on exit when it finds the helper; set `CODEX_AUTOSUMMARY=0` to skip.

## Git Hooks

Enable automatic Codex session logging after each commit:

```bash
git config core.hooksPath .githooks
```

The `post-commit` hook runs `scripts/codex_log.py add ...` using your commit summary and changed files. This keeps `codex/session_memory.md` and Mem0 in sync without manual commands.

Commit message:

Add Memory Governor service, systemd units, and docs

README.md, after:

# Sacred Brain – Hippocampus Service (v0)

A lightweight FastAPI microservice that wraps a Mem0 memory backend and exposes
simple HTTP endpoints for storing, querying, and summarising memories.

## Features

- Store “experiences” (text + metadata) per user.
- Query user memories using semantic/full-text lookups via Mem0.
- Delete memories when they are no longer relevant.
- Summarise multiple memories into a compact form.
- Designed for self-hosted Mem0 deployments on a private LAN/Tailscale network.
- Automatically falls back to the local in-memory store (or optional SQLite mode) when Mem0 is unreachable.
- Minimal configuration via TOML + environment variables.
- Ready-to-run with `uvicorn`, includes tests and ops scaffolding.

## Getting Started

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
export HIPPOCAMPUS_CONFIG=config/hippocampus.toml
uvicorn brain.hippocampus.app:app --reload
```

If Mem0 is offline (or not yet installed), the service automatically falls back
to an in-memory store, ensuring Hippocampus keeps accepting requests. You can
also opt into the bundled SQLite backend for persistence if desired.

## Configuration

Configuration is loaded from `config/hippocampus.toml` and can be overridden
with environment variables prefixed by `HIPPOCAMPUS_` (for example,
`HIPPOCAMPUS_MEM0_BACKEND_URL`). See `brain/hippocampus/config.py` for the full
set of options. The default expectation is that you self-host Mem0 on the same
LAN/VPN:

```toml
[auth]
enabled = false
header_name = "X-API-Key"
api_keys = []

[mem0]
enabled = true
backend = "remote"          # or "memory"/"sqlite"
backend_url = "http://localhost:8888"
api_key = ""                # optional, for your self-hosted deployment
```

If `enabled = false` (or the remote host fails), the adapter falls back to the
in-memory store so Hippocampus remains responsive. The SQLite backend is still
available for teams that want persistence without Mem0.

If you have a local LLM (e.g., Ollama), enable the `[mem0].api_key` or
the `HIPPOCAMPUS_MEM0_API_KEY` environment variable so the adapter can initialise
the official `MemoryClient` SDK. Without a key the service automatically falls
back to SQLite or in-memory storage.

## Running Tests

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pytest
```

## Ops

- `ops/scripts/dev_run.sh` starts the app with sensible defaults.
- `ops/systemd/hippocampus.service` can be dropped into `/etc/systemd/system`
  as a starting point for Raspberry Pi deployments.
- `ops/mem0/prepare_mem0_source.sh` clones/updates the official Mem0 repo into
  `ext/mem0`. Use the upstream `ext/mem0/server/docker-compose.yaml` to launch
  Mem0 + Postgres + Neo4j (see `docs/MEM0_SELF_HOSTING.md` for commands).

## Mem0 Self-Hosting

To wire Hippocampus to a local Mem0 deployment:

1. `cd ops/mem0 && ./prepare_mem0_source.sh`
2. `cd ext/mem0/server && cp .env.example .env` (set `OPENAI_API_KEY` and optional `MEM0_API_KEY`)
3. `OPENAI_API_KEY=... docker compose up -d` (brings up Mem0 + Postgres + Neo4j on port 8888)
4. Update `config/hippocampus.toml` (or env vars) so `[mem0]` has `enabled = true`
   and `backend_url = "http://127.0.0.1:8888"`.
5. Start Hippocampus via `uvicorn` or the systemd unit.
6. To verify fallback behaviour, stop Mem0 (`docker compose stop`), issue
   API calls (service stays up using in-memory storage), then `docker compose start`
   and confirm the warnings disappear. Mem0’s REST API doesn’t expose a `/health`
   route; use `/docs` or a `/memories` request to confirm it’s responding.

See `docs/MEM0_SELF_HOSTING.md` for the step-by-step walkthrough, health checks,
and troubleshooting tips.

## Summarizer (optional)

Add this block to `config/hippocampus.toml` (or set the corresponding `HIPPOCAMPUS_SUMMARIZER_*` env vars) to enable Litellm/Ollama summaries:

```toml
[summarizer]
enabled = false
provider = "litellm"
model = "ollama:llama3"
base_url = "http://localhost:11434"
api_key = ""
max_tokens = 512
```

When disabled, `/summaries` falls back to the built-in truncation helper.

## Agno agent (optional)

Set `[agno].enabled = true` to wrap Hippocampus in an Agno agent for richer
orchestration (tool calls for memory read/write + summarisation). `/matrix/respond`
will route through the Agno agent when available; otherwise it uses the direct
summariser fallback. You’ll need the model-specific dependencies (e.g., `openai`
or `ollama`) installed for the chosen `[agno].model` provider.

## Org-roam / Denote bridge

Export all Mem0 memories into Denote-compatible Org files (usable by
org-roam), and import hand-written notes back into Mem0:

```bash
python scripts/mem0_org_sync.py export --dir data/memories-denote --user alice
python scripts/mem0_org_sync.py import --dir data/memories-denote --user alice
```

Files are idempotent and get `:MEM0_ID:`/`:ID:` properties so repeated syncs do
not duplicate. See `docs/MEM0_ORG_ROAM.md` for the format and options.

## LiteLLM gateway (canonical)
- Route all model traffic through LiteLLM and configure OpenWebUI (if used) to
  point at LiteLLM instead of providers directly. See `docs/LITELLM_GATEWAY.md`.
- Hippocampus stays independent; clients call `/memories` directly.

## Logging to Hippocampus
- Client-agnostic logging examples (curl/Python) are in `docs/LOGGING_TO_HIPPOCAMPUS.md`.
- OpenWebUI-specific auto-logging is deprecated (legacy webhook remains for compatibility).

## Memory Governor

See `docs/MEMORY_GOVERNOR.md` for the Agno/Mem0-based decision layer in front of Hippocampus, including setup, systemd units, and smoke tests.

## Next Steps

- Add authentication and per-caller access control.
- Replace the naive summary helper with an LLM-backed summariser.
- Expand metrics/observability once the core API is validated.


## Matrix Bot

See `bots/matrix/MENTION_BOT.md` for setup.
## Codex Session Memory

Use `scripts/codex_log.py` to append major decisions so future Codex sessions can restore context. Example:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/codex_log.py add "Matrix mention bot deployed via systemd" ops/systemd/matrix-bot.service
python scripts/codex_log.py recent --limit 5
```

When restarting Codex, run `python scripts/codex_log.py recent --limit 5` and paste the output into the prompt. The same entries are also pushed to Mem0 (if `MEM0_API_KEY` is set) for semantic retrieval.

To avoid dragging long transcripts back in, summarise the latest Codex log into `codex/session_memory.md` with:

```bash
python scripts/codex_summarize_session.py --dry-run   # inspect the summary it will write
python scripts/codex_summarize_session.py             # append summary + inferred files
```

This helper scans the most recent `.codex/session-*.log`, pulls out the key bullets, and appends a compact entry so new Codex sessions can start fresh without `codexctl resume`.
`codexctl` now runs this automatically on exit when it finds the helper; set `CODEX_AUTOSUMMARY=0` to skip.

## Git Hooks

Enable automatic Codex session logging after each commit:

```bash
git config core.hooksPath .githooks
```

The `post-commit` hook runs `scripts/codex_log.py add ...` using your commit summary and changed files. This keeps `codex/session_memory.md` and Mem0 in sync without manual commands.
