SESSION_LOG.md, before:

# Sacred Brain – Hippocampus Session Log

This file captures the work performed during the Codex CLI session so it can be
shared with other assistants (e.g., ChatGPT) for continuity.

## Initial Spec
- Build a Raspberry Pi–friendly FastAPI microservice named “hippocampus.”
- Provide REST endpoints to store/query/summarize long-term memories backed by
  Mem0 (with an in-memory fallback).
- Ship code, docs, tests, and simple ops scaffolding (systemd service + dev
  script).
- Structure the repo with `brain/hippocampus/` modules plus tests/docs/config.

## Deliverables Implemented
1. **Core service scaffolding**
   - FastAPI app with `/health`, `/memories` (POST/GET), `/summaries`, and later
     `/memories/{memory_id}` DELETE.
   - Config loader (`brain/hippocampus/config.py`) reading TOML + env overrides.
   - Logging setup (`brain/hippocampus/logging_config.py`).
   - Mem0 adapter with auto fallback to an in-memory backend, including summary
     helper.
   - Pydantic models for all request/response contracts.

2. **Project structure & tooling**
   - `.gitignore`, `pyproject.toml`, `requirements.txt`, and README quickstart.
   - Example config (`config/hippocampus.toml`).
   - Ops helpers: `ops/scripts/dev_run.sh` and sample systemd unit.

3. **Tests**
   - Adapter tests for add/query/summarize/delete.
   - API tests covering create/query/summarize/delete endpoints via FastAPI
     TestClient.
   - `pytest` runs clean inside `.venv` (6 tests passing).

4. **Docs**
   - `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` (component overview).
   - `docs/API.md` describing each HTTP endpoint and payload.
   - README updated with delete capability and Mem0 install guidance.
5. **Persistence fallback**
   - Added a SQLite-backed storage backend (with configurable path) that is now the default when Mem0 cloud access is unavailable.
   - Extended adapter tests to cover persistence, retrieval, and deletion flows to ensure offline durability.

## Extra Feature Added During Session
- Implemented memory deletion flow (`DELETE /memories/{memory_id}`) and updated
  docs/tests to keep the API complete.

## Outstanding Ideas / Next Steps
1. Integrate with the official Mem0 SDK when available and adapt delete/query
   semantics to match the live API.
2. Consider authentication/authorization for multi-tenant deployments.
3. Add persistence beyond the in-memory fallback (e.g., file or database) if
   Mem0 cloud is unavailable.
4. Enhance summarisation by delegating to an LLM-backed service once defined.

## How to Reproduce / Run
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
export HIPPOCAMPUS_CONFIG=config/hippocampus.toml
uvicorn brain.hippocampus.app:app --reload
```

Run tests:
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pytest
```

This log can be shared verbatim with other assistants to give them full context
on what has been built so far and what potential follow-up tasks exist.

Commit message:

Log self-hosted Mem0 integration progress

SESSION_LOG.md, after:

# Sacred Brain – Hippocampus Session Log

This file captures the work performed during the Codex CLI session so it can be
shared with other assistants (e.g., ChatGPT) for continuity.

## Initial Spec
- Build a Raspberry Pi–friendly FastAPI microservice named “hippocampus.”
- Provide REST endpoints to store/query/summarize long-term memories backed by
  Mem0 (with an in-memory fallback).
- Ship code, docs, tests, and simple ops scaffolding (systemd service + dev
  script).
- Structure the repo with `brain/hippocampus/` modules plus tests/docs/config.

## Deliverables Implemented
1. **Core service scaffolding**
   - FastAPI app with `/health`, `/memories` (POST/GET), `/summaries`, and later
     `/memories/{memory_id}` DELETE.
   - Config loader (`brain/hippocampus/config.py`) reading TOML + env overrides.
   - Logging setup (`brain/hippocampus/logging_config.py`).
   - Mem0 adapter with auto fallback to an in-memory backend, including summary
     helper.
   - Pydantic models for all request/response contracts.

2. **Project structure & tooling**
   - `.gitignore`, `pyproject.toml`, `requirements.txt`, and README quickstart.
   - Example config (`config/hippocampus.toml`).
   - Ops helpers: `ops/scripts/dev_run.sh` and sample systemd unit.

3. **Tests**
   - Adapter tests for add/query/summarize/delete.
   - API tests covering create/query/summarize/delete endpoints via FastAPI
     TestClient.
   - `pytest` runs clean inside `.venv` (6 tests passing).

4. **Docs**
   - `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` (component overview).
   - `docs/API.md` describing each HTTP endpoint and payload.
   - README updated with delete capability and Mem0 install guidance.
5. **Persistence fallback**
   - Added a SQLite-backed storage backend (with configurable path) that is now the default when Mem0 cloud access is unavailable.
   - Extended adapter tests to cover persistence, retrieval, and deletion flows to ensure offline durability.
6. **Self-hosted Mem0 integration**
   - Added configuration flags for `mem0.enabled` and `mem0.backend_url`, plus a `Mem0RemoteClient` wrapper for a LAN-accessible Mem0 deployment.
   - `Mem0Adapter` now routes through the remote backend when enabled and automatically falls back to the in-memory store if the SDK/import fails or runtime calls error out.
   - Expanded tests and docs to describe the self-hosted expectation, fallback strategy, and optional SQLite mode.

## Extra Feature Added During Session
- Implemented memory deletion flow (`DELETE /memories/{memory_id}`) and updated
  docs/tests to keep the API complete.

## Outstanding Ideas / Next Steps
1. Integrate with the official Mem0 SDK when available and adapt delete/query
   semantics to match the live API.
2. Consider authentication/authorization for multi-tenant deployments.
3. Add persistence beyond the in-memory fallback (e.g., file or database) if
   Mem0 cloud is unavailable.
4. Enhance summarisation by delegating to an LLM-backed service once defined.

## How to Reproduce / Run
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
export HIPPOCAMPUS_CONFIG=config/hippocampus.toml
uvicorn brain.hippocampus.app:app --reload
```

Run tests:
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pytest
```

This log can be shared verbatim with other assistants to give them full context
on what has been built so far and what potential follow-up tasks exist.
